---
title: Rock operas
---

Back in high school, I had an English teacher named Mr. Poole. He was also, in an excellent example of nominative determinism, my swimming coach. He was a great teacher (enough that the school named a new athletic building after him. Did I mention his first name was Jim?) but I was always a little irrationally afraid of him. Some Fr*ud might say it was because eye had not dealth with my drowning. I listened to him anyway. He sometimes played old rock albums in study hall, and two of the rock operas quickly became my favorite albums. If I had talked to him about what I heard, I might have gotten some help with what I was dealing with, and saved myself some hardship. <span class=lyric>But the wall was too high, as you can see</span>.

### Tommy (The Who)

Tommy Walker witnessed brutal violence as a small child, and was told he <span class=lyric>didn't see it, didn't hear it, and won't say nothing to no one, never tell a soul what he knows is the truth</span>. Because of this, he went <span class=lyric>deaf, dumb, and blind</span>.

His cousin Kevin <span class=lyric>put glass in his dinner and spikes in his seat</span> for fun, because he couldn't see them. His uncle Ernie knew Tommy <span class=lyric>wouldn't shout as he fiddled about</span>. Remarkably, though, Tommy was a <span class=lyric>pinball wizard, the "Bally table king"</span>.

His parents tried everything to cure him. They took him to someone who said his wife's sex was so good it could <span class=lyric>bring eyesight to the blind</span>. They took him to an <span class=lyric>acid queen</span> who tried to cure him with drugs. Then they took him to a doctor who said <span class=lyric>no machine can give the kind of stimulation needed to remove his inner block</span>. He needed to <span class=lyric>go to the mirror</span>, and by seeing himself in it, his blindness was cured.

Now able to see, <span class=lyric>the pinball wizard with the miracle cure</span> entranced people. <span class=lyric>They worshiped him, and all he touched</span>. He started a cult, but he was an abusive leader, thinking healing required repeating the abuses that had been inflicted on him. Eventually his followers said <span class=lyric>we're not gonna take it</span>, and abandoned him.

I enjoyed the music and the story, but I <span class=lyric>laughed and said nothing's that simple</span>. And indeed, it really isn't. But it's not without truth.

### The Wall (Pink Floyd)

Pink's dad went off to fight in The War, <span class=lyric>leaving just a memory</span>. This was the first brick in the wall of isolation that Pink built, cutting himself off from the world emotionally. He went to school, and the teachers were cruel and abusive. <span class=lyric>All in all it's just another brick in the wall</span>. His mother was overbearing and <span class=lyric>put all her fears into him</span>. As the blitz began, he <span class=lyric>had to run for shelter when the promise of a brave new world unfurled beneath the clear blue sky</span>. All bricks in the wall.

Later on, he became a musician. While cheating on his wife on tour, he called home and found out she's been cheating on him too. Later, he took a groupie back to his hotel, and felt <span class=lyric>one of his turns coming on</span>. He trashed the room and terrified her with his meltdown.

<span class=lyric>All in all it was all just bricks in the wall.</span> He said <span class=lyric>goodbye cruel world</span> and finished the wall.

He regretted his decision, and wanted to get back out. <span class=lyric>But it was only fantasy. The wall was too high, as you can see. No matter how he tried, he could not break free. And the worms ate into his brain.</span>

He had success as a musician, but was still in pain. He took drugs to <span class=lyric>become comfortably numb</span>, in a song that I listened to during my ketamine treatments for how well it reflected the experience.

He cracked. His concert turned into a nazi rally. <span class=lyric>In perfect isolation behind his wall</span>, the worms—the anger and hatred and bigotry—took over. <span class=lyric>Would you like to see Britannia rule again? All you have to do is follow the worms</span>, he said. Finally, he said <span class=lyric>stop</span>, and put himself on trial <span class=lyric>because he had to know, has he been guilty all this time?</span>

The charge was <span class=lyric>showing feelings of an almost human nature</span>. After hearing from witnesses, the judge found him guilty. <span class=lyric>Since he had revealed his deepest fear, he was sentenced to be exposed before his peers</span>.

The wall came down. The ones who cared about him tried to help. <span class=lyric>And when they'd given their all, some staggered and fell. After all, it's not easy banging your heart against some mad bugger's wall</span>. The album concludes, in the last moment, with the spoken words "isn't this where…", continued at the beginning of the first track with "…we started off?"