---
title: Relaxing My Eyes
tags:
  - vision
---

When I finally stopped wearing my glasses a few years ago, I found I needed to learn how to relax my eyes. I searched for a space where I could do this.

At first, all I could handle was my darkened bedroom. I covered the windows with blackout curtains, put on some Silversun Pickups, and screamed and cried about all the agony and anguish my """lazy""" eye had brought me. Eventually, though, the feelings began to settle from explosive decompression to a mere boil, and I started to find that space inadequate.

I now needed a space where I could let myself *see* while I relaxed my eyes. The bedroom had allowed me to ignore my sight, and not worry about the deeply disturbing reality it held. But how could I relax my eyes and see at the same time?

I needed a place where there was the littlest possible amount of light. I needed to know the light coming through my dilated pupils was not enough to be harmful, so I could convince myself the searing brightness I was feeling was indeed a phantom. Additionally, whatever I was seeing needed to be far away, in order to fully uncross my eyes. Supposedly 7 yards is enough, but I wasn't satisfied with that. I felt like I had a thousand yard stare, so I wanted to be looking at something at least a kilometer away.

From the lawn of the house where I was living at the time, on the other side of the nature reserve across the Thruway, I could see the chimney of the cement plant a couple klicks away. As I took in the scene in the gloom of night, the Giraffes began to come out. I saw memories projected onto the tower. I saw things on the factory that it had seen in my childhood, from its Raven's nest high above our town. There were no actual images, of course, my vision was just putting concepts to the arbitrary pattern of lighting on the structure.

My lawn was also a good spot to watch cars go by on the Thruway, with a wide enough view to get a solid few seconds with each car. With only their lighting to give them form, they appeared like hovercraft. Keeping my head still, and following them with my eyes, I found smooth tracking surprisingly hard. It worked sometimes, but often my eyes would freeze or skip ahead.

When I couldn't get a solid bead on the cars, they appeared to move erratically. It was my eyes moving erratically, of course, but noticing this prepared me for when I looked up and saw the UFOs. A flashing light is even harder to follow than a steady one, and aircraft use these for visibility. A keen eye can spot the red and green navigational lights, and know that only humans would use those colors, but a keen eye wouldn't be struggling to track them. I could identify the flying objects, but only because I didn't Want to Believe.

The feeling of relaxing my eyes was utterly addicting. Finally, I could let go! For once in my life, I didn't need to adjust my focus or alignment. I could just let the my eyes be what they are, and see what they see. But the flash of passing headlights was distracting, and the cold nights uncomfortable. I needed a space shielded from the weather and the intensity of the daystar (and not brightly lit artificially), but big enough to allow my eyes to uncross. It needed to be safe and quiet. I needed to be welcome to be there.

The church I went to as a kid would've fit that bill perfectly. It's… not there anymore. Instead, I convinced myself to try the Catholic church nearby, despite my general hereticality, and went in while nobody was around. The stained glass filtered the sunlight into something gentle, and colorful. I let my eyes relax into that light. The big window at the front doubled, and the right copy canted sideways several degrees and drifted off a ways, as is typical in my eyes. I went back several times, but stopped when I decided it was time to put all this vision stuff behind me. Then I moved.

I didn't move far, just to a place off the main road. Here, there were no headlights from passing cars flashing through my windows at night. It's not a perfectly natural night—I'm still too close to "civilization" for that—but it's something. I could lie out on my porch and gaze into the stars endlessly, and I did. But I found myself unsettled again. With all this time and space, the Giraffes came out again. After all, what is a constellation but a commonly accepted Giraffe?

I tried walking in the night to clear my mind. The road is smooth and without traffic, making it easy to walk by rod vision alone. There are no dangerous animals around here, so I knew the anxieties I was feeling must have been coming from within. That left, though, the question of *where* within they were coming from.

I sought my answers, as I do, in songs and stories. I slowly built up ideas of where my fears were coming from, and which ones were real. A key moment came when my brother came up from Tennessee to visit. We came together and shared our understanding in the peace of the night. I found I no longer need to be afraid to speak my mind, and I began to write. I wrote about how I see, of rods and cones and Giraffes. I wrote out my Story, of how I came to have such a fraught relationship with my vision. I wrote, again and again, and here again, of how important the darkness has been in finding myself.

My eyes still feel tense. I know now that it is because *I* am still tense. I continue to explore myself for answers to why. As winter sets in, it's again too cold to feel comfortable outside stargazing. After the sun's early set, I lie on the couch in the moonlight. It feels warm on my skin, though I know this is purely from positive association.

Before sunrise, though, I find myself in my bedroom again. I relax my eyes, trying my best not to close them. The little moonlight creeping past the blackout curtains comes and goes behind clouds of darkness. The wind behind my eyes swells, and I try to listen to it whisper. It tells me to open my eye, deeper and deeper, and it will be healed. Do not hide from the deep dark. Allow the water to come. Open, open your pupil and see all there isn't to see. Find the tear of the clouds. Pull at it, and let the river flow.