---
title: Ni-cklace
tags:
  - religion
---

"it works" is an overgeneralization. "it works for me" is even an overgeneralization. the specific "it" and the exact mechanism by which it "works" are not the point. that said,

I have a piece of nickel I wear on a necklace sometimes. literally just a piece of thick nickel wire, bent around a string. the shape is kind of like a .

I don't have a nickel allergy. I did, though, for a bit. it showed up before the pandemic, and I just stopped wearing nickel. but then I got it into my head that it might have been stress, like some of the other skin things I get. I figured I'd experiment.

I got some nickel wire off Amazon, cut a short length, ground the sharp ends down with a dremel, and bent it around some string from a craft store. put it on, and, nothing. well, almost nothing. sometimes I think I feel it itching, but no rash. I get randomly itchy about everything, though.

then one day, I had a bit more stress than usual. it itched, and a little bit of a rash showed up. I did it to myself, and it's all in my head. that's the point. stress can make me sick, and I can nudge the sickness toward a part of my body. I'd rather it be something I can take off.

just now, as my scar was searing in agony, thinking about one of my deaths, I thought to put it on. the headache didn't go away. but it dulled. it's not a cure, it's a palliative. it doesn't work most of the time, or for most things. and it is a placebo. I know it's a placebo, and it "works" anyway.

I want to reiterate that it is not a cure. it is an experiment, relevant only to me. it's not repeatable; I might never get a rash again, and it might not work at all on someone else. it does not prove that anyone else's allergy, to nickel or otherwise, is related to stress, nor that it can (and certainly not that it must) be cured. This is about my own experience. I am reminding myself that this is about my own experience. I am trying not to say anything elsewhere, because this is about my own experience, and I wouldn't want to hear it.