---
title: Nature of a State
tags:
  - politics
---

Set aside, for a moment, the meaning of State as in United States of America, and let me give my interpretation of the word.

A state is a government which controls the area within some line on a map. The placement of the line is always always always a human decision, based on factors that can be both meaningless and meaningful. The most important factor is that they are kept where they are unless there's broad agreement to move them. Thus the classic case of a border on a river which suddenly changes course. The border keeps the old way by default, to avoid it crossing anyone. Or anything. Sometimes an uninhabited island is still home to one of the most holy sites in all the world 🗽 [Fools like me](/2025/08/21/liberty.html) will surely die for it, because we have some romantic idea of the River that Flows Both Ways, the Golden Door, the Lost Highway, that tells us that matters of course have changed. Anyway, I digress.

There are different levels of state. At the smallest level, an HOA or BID can be considered a state. The collection of a mandatory fee alone is enough to establish that it has control within its line. Villages, towns, and counties and their equivalents are states (as, of course, are States). The levels of state are a spectrum, and open to interpretation. A state is recognized at a level if it is subjectively determined by its would-be peers, who have their own motives in making their determination, to be operating at that level. The Vatican, for example, lacks many traits that are otherwise assumed necessary for recognition at the highest level, but its inarguable power in global diplomacy wins it the recognition at the highest level. States can also be self-governing members of a larger federal state, or mere administrative subdivisions of a larger unitary state. This, too, is a spectrum and open to interpretation.

The United Nations is, importantly, not the highest level of state. Every state of the highest level is a member, but is free to ignore its rulings (at its own peril, should other members decide to intervene). The power of a singular world government would be utterly uncheckable and inescapable, and it would utterly exemplify the notion of a single point of failure. Instead, the UN is a state much like the Vatican, controlling but a tiny corner on the map yet wielding from it immense diplomatic power.

Coming back to America, what then is a State? A State is, of course, a state, but of what sort? Is a State like a member of the European Union, or like a German *Land*? It's a spectrum and open to interpretation, of course. And the de jure and de facto of the status quo merely inform, not prescribe, what should be. Any state can be made a State, and being a State can mean anything, if only there is the political will to make it so.

I would argue, on the matter of Puerto Rico and DC Statehood, that while all deserve meaningful representation in Congress, the status of State should be reserved for those member states which have no special caveats in their relationship to the federation. DC will forever have caveats due to having no other purpose than to be the capital. Puerto Rico will forever have caveats due to its physical isolation from the rest of the country. Thus my answer is that PR and DC should not be States, and neither should Alaska and Hawaii.