---
title: Two poems by Emma Lazarus
---

# The New Colossus
<small>*1883*</small>

Not like the brazen giant of Greek fame,<br/>
With conquering limbs astride from land to land;<br/>
Here at our sea-washed, sunset gates shall stand<br/>
A mighty woman with a torch, whose flame<br/>
Is the imprisoned lightning, and her name<br/>
Mother of Exiles. From her beacon-hand<br/>
Glows world-wide welcome; her mild eyes command<br/>
The air-bridged harbor that twin cities frame.<br/>

"Keep, ancient lands, your storied pomp!" cries she<br/>
With silent lips. "Give me your tired, your poor,<br/>
Your huddled masses yearning to breathe free,<br/>
The wretched refuse of your teeming shore.<br/>
Send these, the homeless, tempest-tost to me,<br/>
I lift my lamp beside the golden door!"<br/>

<br/>
<br/>
<br/>
# Niagara Below the Falls
<small>*1865*</small>

Flow on forever, in thy tranquil sleep,<br/>
Thou stream, all wearied by thy giant leap;<br/>
Flow on in quiet and in peace fore’er,<br/>
No rocky steep, no precipice is there.<br/>

The rush, the roar, the agony are past;<br/>
The leap, the mighty fall, are o’er at last;<br/>
And now with drowsy ripplings dost thou flow,<br/>
All murmuring in whispers soft and low.<br/>

Oh tell us, slumb’ring, em’rald river, now,<br/>
With that torn veil of foam upon thy brow;<br/>
Now, while thou sleepest quietly below, —<br/>
What are thy dreams? Spent river, let us know.<br/>

Again, in thought, dost dash o’er that dread steep,<br/>
By frenzy maddened to the fearful leap?<br/>
By passion’s mists all blinded, cold and white,<br/>
Dost plunge once more, now, from the dizzy height?<br/>

Or else, forgetful of the dangers past,<br/>
Art dreaming calm and peacefully, at last,<br/>
Of that fair nymph who pressed thy livid brow,<br/>
And gave thy past a glory vanished now?<br/>

The Rainbow, whom the royal Sun e’er wooes,<br/>
For whom, in tears, the mighty Storm-king sues;<br/>
Who left her cloud-built palace-home above,<br/>
To crown thy awful brow with light and love.<br/>

Yes, in thy tranquil sleep, O wearied stream,<br/>
Still of the lovely Iris is thy dream;<br/>
The agony, the perils ne’er could last;<br/>
But with all these the rainbow, too, has past.<br/>

No life so wild and hopeless but some gleam<br/>
Doth lighten it, to make a future dream.<br/>
Thy course, O Stream, has been mid fears and woe,<br/>
But thou hast met the Rainbow in thy flow.<br/>