---
title: Replacing the West Shore Line
tags:
  - urbanism
---

In my grandfathers things, after he died, I found a timetable for the New York Central's West Shore Line from 1940. It showed 7 trains stopping in Ravena *each way* every day, with more on the weekends. Today, Ravena gets a single bus to the malls, leaving Tuesday morning and coming back in the afternoon. I firmly believe that this loss of service has been bad for Ravena.

Transit drives foot traffic, and foot traffic is key to Main Street businesses. The station acts as a focal point to concentrate foot traffic. When you walk to the station, you can't help but look at the businesses along the way, and what they have to offer. When you see something interesting, it's effortless to go in.

Don't get me wrong, there are benefits to driving. It's faster, more luxurious, and more flexible. "Ban cars" is one of those hyperbolic things people say that makes a nice slogan, but isn't really a serious policy. That said, cars are also enormously expensive, energy inefficient (even when they're electric), and dangerous. I would prefer to have the option to avoid all that!

It might seem like a transit-focused small town is impossible. But Ravena, like many others, was built that way in the first place! It's still reasonably walkable, if you don't mind the missing sidewalks on 9W. Really, the only thing it's missing is the connection to the city that it used to have.

I don't think passenger rail is coming back on the west shore any time soon. It sees heavy freight traffic that would interfere with passenger service, and it would have to compete with the line on the east shore, which offers service directly into Manhattan that the west shore can't, thanks to shortsighted planning of the new Tappan Zee Bridge.

But that doesn't mean there can't be passenger service on the west shore. In fact, there already is. All of the bus services up and down the Hudson run along the Thruway. These services are more frequent than the old train service, with Greyhound alone showing 9 weekday trips each way. The trouble with the existing services is that they expect the bus to get off with the regular looping ramps and proceed on local streets or, at best, through the lot of the park and ride. This adds a few minutes to each stop, which makes it unreasonable to serve multiple destinations along the line. When only point-to-point service is viable, only destinations that can fill a bus on their own will get service.

It is possible, though, to build for highway bus service, and it is becoming more common. It takes little more than sidings that buses can pull onto and make their stop, without looping on ramps or interacting with local traffic. It's not perfect, as the best place for a stop tends to be right where there's an existing exit, but it can be done. With the ability to make quick stops, buses could stop in more places, increasing connectivity. More passengers would ride buses, increasing demand, justifying increased service.

As a pilot for this, I envision a stop for Ravena. Locals have been agitating for a new exit, but a new exit to Main Street would only exacerbate the undesired road traffic. A bus station would encourage only foot traffic, which is not only less disruptive, but actively beneficial to the neighborhood. The Thruway crosses Main Street in the perfect place, within a mile of almost the entirety of Ravena and Coeymans Landing. Existing commuter buses from Catskill pass by every day. The existing overpass is quite wide, so it might not even need to be rebuilt to accommodate the on and off ramps for the station, which would likely be just to the south of the crossing where there is land that could be used for parking.

More ambitiously, I envision sidings at numerous locations. These would be request stops, like normal city bus service, but with tickets purchased in advance so buses can stay at speed on the mainline if they aren't stopping. Catskill, Kingston, and Stewart Airport are all obvious destinations, but SUNY New Paltz and Storm King Art Center would likely also deserve the investment, and many other smaller locations may as well.

The return of public transit service along the west shore would increase connectivity, reduce carbon emissions and surface traffic, and provide economic opportunity for Main Street businesses. Using the Thruway for it would be an efficient and effective use of existing infrastructure while avoiding conflicts with freight rail operations. It would be an innovative approach for an era that is looking back to public transit to provide inexpensive and equitable transportation options.