---
title: Comment on 787
tags:
  - urbanism
---

*This was sent as a comment to the project to reimagine 787, cc the project to revitalize downtown Albany.*

There's a story in my family about my great aunts. When they were teens, they used to take the train into downtown Albany from Ravena to go to school, and then skip school to catch a movie. I don't advocate skipping school, of course, it just makes the story memorable enough to have been passed down. I share it because it gives me a vision of a very different downtown. A better downtown. A downtown people could get to without driving, and that had things for them to do. For my part, I love going downtown, just to enjoy the feel of the city. I'm happy just walking around, or sitting in a park or plaza, but sometimes I get a bite to eat. I wish I didn't have to drive (and park!) there. This is what's on my mind when I think about revitalizing downtown and reimagining 787.

Downtown is broken because it was reimagined, like so many postwar downtowns, from a mixed-use transit-focused place to a single-use car-focused place. This reconfiguration has failed just about everywhere that it was tried. Downtown will never be good as a car-focused place. No matter how far downtown bends over backwards for the car, Colonie will do it better, because Colonie was built for it, and downtown was not. The only way residents and businesses will choose downtown is if downtown has alternatives to driving that Colonie lacks.

I'm not saying we need to bring back rail on the west shore. That's gone for at least a couple more generations, because the opportunity to bring it back on the Tappan Zee Bridge was missed. I am saying that we need to bring a transit focus back to downtown. When I went to the 787 open house last week, the person I talked to seemed surprised that I even brought it up. "This isn't about that," he said. But why not? Is this not the perfect time to consider it, as the infrastructure is rebuilt?

There are any number of ways this might look. I love imagining them. It feels futile to share them. Certainly any details would be best left to the professionals, except the professionals don't seem to be thinking about it. But I'll share the broadest strokes of my imagination:

CDTA has a set of branded bus services—key lines that make up the backbone of the system. They aren't BRT, but they could be someday. One of those lines parallels 787. What better time to make it a proper BRT! You have a wide open right of way, which already has to be limited access and semi-grade-separated because of the railway, going right where you need it to go! The plans also include a new bridge over the river. An extension of the east-west lines to the rail station, as proper BRT, could mitigate the damage of having moved it to the wrong side of the river for 787. Don't miss the opportunity to put transit on *another* bridge!

The biggest benefit of BRT is its flexibility. It's very easy to build one section, and figure the rest out later. If the keystone of the system is in place, the rest can build off it. More work on the way to Troy can be done whenever is convenient. Improvements going west can happen when they happen. Maybe someday it extends down 32 to Delmar. Maybe it makes a good last mile for existing and new commuter bus services (which in some ways replicate the role of the old interurbans) on the Northway and Thruway. The future is unwritten! Unless, of course, we set an exclusive focus on the car in concrete for a second time.
