---
title: Little free library
permalink: /library
tags:
  - religion
  - politics
---

These are some books that have influenced me, and which are available On Here for free.

### The Federalist
I've been reading [the Federalist](https://en.wikisource.org/wiki/The_Federalist_(Gideon)) (for the unamerican: a series of essays about the US constitution from when it was first being created, by authors including Hamilton (the guy from the musical) under the collective name Publius) to better understand the US, but also to better understand the United Federation of Planets. Starfleet, being essentially a space navy, is well described by № 11. As I read, I post thoughts to a [thread on mastodon](https://furry.engineer/@else/112639798360529399).

It's been slow progress, because the Founders®, being as they were Men™ of certain backgrounds, and having existed in a particular period of history, have a style of writing which, in modern terms, would be considered verbose and loquacious, if not downright pompous, to a degree which would hinder by a modern reader the interpretation thereof.

### A History of New York
One of my dad's old favorites, [*A History of New York*](https://en.wikisource.org/wiki/Knickerbocker%27s_History_of_New_York) is a most thoroughly accurate and complete telling of the real history of New York, from the same historian who recorded the very true historical events of [Rip Van Winkle](https://en.wikisource.org/wiki/The_Sketchbook_of_Geoffrey_Crayon_(1819)/Rip_Van_Winkle) and [The Legend of Sleepy Hollow](https://en.wikisource.org/wiki/The_Sketchbook_of_Geoffrey_Crayon_(1819)/The_Legend_of_Sleepy_Hollow). It was the Historical Documents over a century and a half before Star Trek, indeed containing a story of space invaders at the end of [book 1, chapter 5](https://en.wikisource.org/wiki/Knickerbocker%27s_History_of_New_York/Book_I/Chapter_V) which trekkies will immediately recognize as the scenario the Prime Directive is meant to avoid. Though I am utterly destitute of a tail, and my complexion is of a horrible whiteness instead of pea green, I believe in the lunacy of the man in the moon.

It too is from a certain time, so it's a challenge to read, and I only picked it up recently, so I haven't finished it yet. Look, if I couldn't make conclusions about books based on reading part of it and filling in the rest from what I've heard about it, I never would have made it through high school.

### The Bible
[It am that It are](https://lmddgtfy.net/?q=bible)

Have I read It? Is reading It even the point? What is "It", and what is "reading"? 

### Code v2
Lawrence Lessig is best known on the Internet for being the architect of the Creative Commons licenses, but he's also a constitutional scholar, notable enough to have been played by Christopher Lloyd on an episode of The West Wing. A colleague at 2U gave a talk sharing some of the ideas from [Code](https://lessig.org/product/codev2/), which I found interesting. It looks at the regulation of cyberspace not as impossible, as was the typical view in 1999 when it was first published, but as inevitable. It asks, if regulation is inevitable, how can it be structured to promote liberty? The second edition is a snapshot of the public wiki which edits the text, captured in 2005, and is thus a collaborative work perhaps better credited not to Lessig alone but to `@publius`.

This one I actually have finished reading. I am capable of finishing a book, I just don't do it very often.