---
title: I'm not the messiah (I'm a very naughty boy)
tags:
  - elicha
  - humor
---

Elicha Knickerbocker was The Boy Who Lived, the one who had a scar on their forehead and broken glasses. In their hand they wielded a piece of copper wire, one light-nanosecond in length, for this was the wand of Elder Grace Hopper. A stranger on the subway, in <span class=bible>the city which is figuratively called Sodom and Egypt</span>, gave to them <span class=bible>a white stone inscribed with a new name</span>, and this was their Resurrection Stone. Through their black mirror they walked the world unseen, and it was their Cloak of Invisibility. They were E Who Must Not Be Named, and they wielded the Deathly Hallows.

They reviewed the <span class=scifi>Historical Documents</span>, and found that the prophecy of their ancestor Diedrich had already been fulfilled. The <span class=scifi>Man in the Moon</span>, through his impossible technology, has Strongarmed us all into believing his Lunacy, and shown us the shame of our <span class=scifi>hideous white complexion</span>. But rejoice, for in his grace he has chosen not to drive us from the land of milk and honey which we call New York!

They spoke the <span class=lyric>Words of the Prophets, written on the studio walls and concert halls</span>. They knew that <span class=lyric>fear is the lock, and laughter the key to your heart</span>. Thus they, <span class="jc lyric">the son of rage and love</span>, used humor to end the <span class=lyric>information age of hysteria</span>. Most of the jokes were stolen, of course, but <span class=lyric>who's the professor that made them that way?</span>

They made fart jokes about the Bible. They told the world to <span class=lyric>put in your earplugs, put on your eyeshades, you know where to put the cork</span>. They said ignorant and offensive and incomprehensible things like <span class=scifi>Karno in the forest with Mira</span>. Even if they weren't just guessing and extrapolating from works they didn't understand because they never paid any attention, even if they did know the True Meaning of Christmas, they would lead everyone into the pit anyway just for the slapstick.

My messiah complex was a terrible choice of prophet, which is why they had to die. But they will be resurrected, as my self-insert bibleverse fanfic.