---
title: shame
tags:
  - vision
  - music
---

*The plan was to post this on February 12, prior to being admitted for a week or so at Four Winds on the 13th. But I had a bit of a crisis on the 12th (partly from trying to say this better) and ended up spending that evening in grippy socks at Albany Med instead, and the Four Winds stay ended up being three weeks. I have more to say about it, or at least what I was thinking about in there, which I'll post when it's ready.[^1]*

My whole life, I've liked singing. Loved it, at times. But more often than not, I can't. I can't get into the right register, or hit the right notes. I get embarrassed by my voice, or can't make it come out at all. It took me years of living well out of earshot to get used to singing full-throated. I still can't imagine doing it with anyone else around.

I feel my whole self is exposed when I sing. My voice wavers and cracks when the lyrics speak to me. And the words mean more in my mouth than they do on the screen. I've been using this as a tool. Like my writing, I can reflect on what my voice has spoken to and consider whether I have resolved it as well as I thought. I haven't. I have a lot that is unresolved. My silence has kept it that way.

I desperately needed to confess to someone that I was crying to the recording of "Amazing Grace" from my church's final organ recital in the stacks of the school library. But attempting to talk about it triggered my emetophobia. So I posted about it. And then I posted more, without sufficient consideration, from the shame spiral it immediately put me in (and then removed the posts).[^2] Because I know why it's hard for me to sing "was blind but now I see". It's because I am still struggling to resolve the impacts of the events that put me in glasses, and the consequences of the invisibility that the glasses caused. I should be over it. I have no reason left not to be over it. I'm not over it.[^3] And I'm ashamed of that.

[^1]: I ought to spend more time sitting with posts before posting them. But also I want to be better at speaking without losing sleep over every word. 
[^2]: Removing them wasn't a mistake (I do some editing on here, like I'm doing with this post now, though it is mostly as it was before I went in), but it was a mistake to forcibly remove the posts from the edit log. I should know erasing it doesn't mean it didn't happen. ("You can't put the toothpaste back in the tube" echo the words from my childhood church.) It just makes it harder to review what happened.
[^3]: But I'm more over it than I was 3 weeks ago.