---
title: Waste It On
tags:
  - vision
---

I've been thinking about the Silversun Pickups song "Waste It On" lately. It's not a single, but I tend to listen to music by the album, and Carnavas speaks to me (and not just for "Lazy Eye").

It was a hard song for me to deal with, because of the line <span class=lyric>needlepoint has set designs, to show how easy it can be, when we waste it on</span>. Among my most prized possessions, displayed prominently in my living room, are three of my grandmother's needlepoints (I think at least one is an original design). I always wished I could do it. It's like pixel art, but real! But I was never able to get into it, and I didn't know why. It took me years to hear it.

<pre class=lyric>
We waste it on

On sullen meadows that will fit right in
With lisping rivers that will fit right in
With mountain ranges through matted lenses
That will fit right in connect and dissect so we

With all your meadows they'll still see right in
With all your rivers they'll still see right in
No mountain ranges will stop them sensing
And they'll see right in and see right through cuz we

Waste it on
</pre>

When I started writing this blog, I started thinking about how others who read it might interpret me. It's mortifying. It feels like if something doesn't expose some part of me, it's a waste of time, but it also feels like everything I try to write (or sing, or draw, or build with lego, or say, or just show in my eyes, or…) exposes things I don't want exposed, or shouldn't expose, or worse, has another meaning that isn't true. It feels like the only way out is to assume my entire soul is already a matter of public record, and pray it's good enough. But nobody knows Elicha Knickerbocker.