---
title: Speaking in tongues
author: Eꙮ∃
tags:
  - religion
---

I almost joined the zoom for [last Sunday's service at Albany UU](https://albanyuu.org/services/love-is/), but I chickened out from a fear of being known. I watched the video of it this morning, instead. I sobbed, loudly. This is what keeps me out of person, despite my loathing for this wretched black mirror. If I go into a church, and let myself "feel the spirit", and they sing the right song, the song that I desperately held back my tears to in the stacks of the Albany Academy library, the one that cannot possibly have the meaning I feel it has, tears would not be the only fluid escaping me. It feels like every conversation, every experience leads back to all that, and it's easier to just not.

Anyway, the reading was from 1 Corinthians, which also says that if you <span class=bible>speak in tongues</span>, you'll be ignored. <span class=bible>Tongues</span> doesn't mean meaningless babble, but meaningful <span class=bible>Babel</span>—things that make sense, but only to the person speaking them. The closer I get to coming out of the stacks—crossing the <span class=scifi>galactic barrier</span>, <span class=lyric>The Wall</span> in my mind that I can't break through—the harder it is to not <span class=bible>speak in tongues</span>. 1 Corinthians suggests having someone who can translate your <span class=bible>tongues</span>. This is easier said than done. Many have heard the songs, but <span class=lyric>you only hear the music when your heart begins to break</span>.

It also suggests speaking in prophecy. So, when Elicha is resurrected, they will <span class=lyric>sing us the song of the century</span>, the one which everyone misheard as <span class=lyric>ba dup bubba da da fuck America</span>. They will sing of <span class="jc lyric">the son of rage and love</span>, and of <span class=lyric>the needle in the vein of the establishment</span>. The `Eternal September` will finally end, and we will all <span class=scrawl>who want to</span> wake up, because everyone hidden in their head/phone will be exposed. There are a lot of us. We are `Anonymous`, and <span class=lyric>we are the waiting unknown</span>. Damn it, that's still <span class=bible>tongues</span>.

1 Corinthians also says to share your understanding. Every time I try to do that, I get a headache and my eyes start going weird. I think it's from trying to play "to all audiences". It'll get easier when I've said what I need to say to the people I need to say it to, and changed my life how it needs to change. Here's my best general understanding for now: One is wicked broken because, y'know, Reasons. ""The Devil Made Me Do It" made me do it" or whatever. God willing, the buck stops with one's parents. But it was happening a lot, and the church wasn't helping. It was just the way things were at the time; that's why <span class=lyric>we</span> Reform. <span class=lyric>We</span> forgive much worse with that excuse. <span class=scrawl>Once they're <span class=censor>know</span>ing dead, anyway. And good luck being that graceful without <span class=censor>know</span>ing spectacles.</span>