Christian Knickerbockers had a religious ritual in which a faithful person would bring oneself to a stream, the local word of course being *kill*, and submerge their head in the running water. This was believed to remove the burdens of wrongdoings and shortcomings—their word being "*sins*"—from the "*soul*" (a concept which has been compared to the katra). This practice was referred to as "killing yourself".

In keeping with their tradition of finding ways to disagree with themselves, Knickerbockers had many opinions on the practice of killing oneself. For example, it was common to perform this rite shortly after birth, which detractors labeled as "drowning babies". In response to this, some groups instead merely simulated the act on infants, by splashing or smudging the water on the baby's head. Others said that one should not kill oneself until reaching an age at which one can make decisions for oneself, placed variously at 3, 5, 7, 10, 13, 16, 18, 21, 27, 30, 50, 65, 80, or 100 years. One common school of thought was that one should kill oneself after major events like the death or birth of a loved one, while others believed one should kill oneself every day, as the only way to be certain of avoiding doing wrong or falling short on any given day is to avoid being alive.

When indoor plumbing became common, one could now kill oneself at any time, from the comfort of their own home, which only added to the debate. Is it the running water which eliminates the *sins*, or is it the submersion? Does the ability to control the temperature of the water eliminate the distraction of frigidity, or is it itself a distraction from feeling the Universe's natural state? These questions were all matters of frequent debate and dissension. In a group of 10 Kinckerbockers, it is said, one would find 11 irreconcilable positions. Elicha, being a universal contrarian, agreed with all of them.

They contextualized it for me with the term "restless heart syndrome", in reference to a song from an opera. Lunatic science analogizes the human brain to a web of interconnected neurons, which each produce output based on applying conditions to their input. These conditions can become disadvantageously configured by various means, primarily—though not exclusively—physical injury. "<span class="ek scrawl">Sticks and stones can break your bones</span>", said Elicha, "<span class="ek">but words can do it, too</span>". RHS, in Elicha's theory, could cause an immense array of symptoms, from skin blemishes to dysfunctional organs (including, as but one example, an elevated heart rate) to loss of sensory and motor functions. Broken bones could even be among the symptoms, as RHS could cause compulsive or reckless behavior. "<span class=ek>If you believe in changing it, you can call it RHS</span>", they said.

The treatment for RHS is to change the configurations of the appropriate neurons. There are, of course, Lunatic medicines and technologies that do this. However, there are those for whom Lunatic medicine fails. Each resolved symptom is replaced with a new one, and some never resolve. Elicha compared this to a traditional Japanese game, known in English as "whack-a-mole". As Lunacy is, of course, entirely without fault, this is surely a shortcoming of the patient and not the medicine. Elicha, savage Christian that he was, believed killing oneself could help with these cases.

The proposed mechanism of action was, in effect, using the reprogramming ability against itself. By engaging in an event which can cause reprogramming intentionally, the effects of previous reprogrammings could be reversed. The intentionality was to be achieved through a class of rituals known as *prayer*. They shared one written in red, but it was untranslatable. It got stuck in my head, though, like a good song. It made me ask myself questions. Am I hungry? Is there someone I feel angry toward, or disconnected from, because I haven't forgiven them for something? Do I just want to be living in my dreams? Can the world be made more like my dreams? Do I feel like I'm on the wrong path?

killing oneself is best done with others, but it can also be done alone, provided it is done safely, as killing oneself should never result in one's death. 
